readme.md, before:



# A Blender addon that aids in the creation of PBR Texture baking

# Features
- Create PBR textures on the fly with one button
- Change scene settings for optimal baking 
- Custom bake node to bake every value you need
- Seperate buttons to bake each value

# Images
## Side Panel and Bake node
The Side panel includes scene setup, texture creation and individual bake buttons

***

The PBR Bake Node has inputs and outputs for most of your PBR needs and will auto connect when you push one of the bake buttons on the sidebar

***

![Side Panel](images/panel.png)
![Bake Node](images/bake_node.png)


## Add Textures with a single button

***

Press a button and get a full PBR texture layout or an ORM texture layout

![Textures](images/textures.webp)

***

## Bake Textures with a single button

Individual buttons for each bake pass so you don't have to navigate a drop down menu

![Process](images/process.webp)


# Mini Tutorial

- To start, setup your baking scene under the scene setup tab located in the node editor > pbr bake tab
- Next, choose your texture size and click on either "Create PBR Textures Full" or "Create PBR Textures ORM"
- Next click on the "Add Bake Node" Button, this is crucial because this node makes a lot of it possible
- Connect/copy the textures/values from the Principled shader to the pbr bake group
- Finally select the texture you want to bake in the node editor and click on the corrosponding button in the PBR Bake tab. 
- Continue with all textures until complete

[Full tutorial can be found here](https://github.com/TehMerow/PBR_Bake_Tools/wiki/Tutorial)

# Gotchas

- This isn't a one button solution but it's something I needed to speed up the process quite a bit
- right now this only works with **one material per object** if you need more materials per object I'd recommend masking with vertex colors and have multiple shaders withing the material
- This doesn't cover things like shadow and combined baking but that process is already available in blender as is

The better solution than this would be to use proper texture baking software like armorpaint but my computer can't handle those so this is my solution lol

Commit message:

updated readme.md added recomended add-ons section to readme fixed formating in readme replaced all instances of "addon" with "add-on"

readme.md, after:

# A Blender add-on that aids in the creation of PBR Texture baking

A simple solution for speeding up the process of PBR Texture baking


# Features

- Create PBR textures on the fly with one button
- Change scene settings for optimal baking 
- Custom bake node to bake every value you need
- Seperate buttons to bake each value

# Images

## Side Panel and Bake node

The Side panel includes scene setup, texture creation and individual bake buttons

***

The PBR Bake Node has inputs and outputs for most of your PBR needs and will auto connect when you push one of the bake buttons on the sidebar

***

![Side Panel](images/panel.png)
![Bake Node](images/bake_node.png)


## Add Textures with a single button

***

Press a button and get a full PBR texture layout or an ORM texture layout

![Textures](images/textures.webp)

***

## Bake Textures with a single button

Individual buttons for each bake pass so you don't have to navigate a drop down menu

![Process](images/process.webp)

---

# Mini Tutorial

- To start, setup your baking scene under the scene setup tab located in the node editor > pbr bake tab

- Next, choose your texture size and click on either "Create PBR Textures Full" or "Create PBR Textures ORM"

- Next click on the "Add Bake Node" Button, this is crucial because this node makes a lot of it possible

- Connect/copy the textures/values from the Principled shader to the pbr bake group

- Finally select the texture you want to bake in the node editor and click on the corrosponding button in the PBR Bake tab.

- Continue with all textures until complete

## [Full tutorial can be found here](https://github.com/TehMerow/PBR_Bake_Tools/wiki/Tutorial)

---

# Recomended Add-ons

Where these add-ons are not required for this one to work, they are nice to have for it

[Vertex Color Master](https://github.com/andyp123/blender_vertex_color_master) - Useful for making Vertex Color Masks for multiple textures in a single material

[Node Wrangler *(Blender Built-in add-on)*](https://docs.blender.org/manual/en/latest/addons/node/node_wrangler.html) - Just good to have on  

# Gotchas

- This isn't a one button solution but it's something I needed to speed up the process quite a bit
- right now this only works with **one material per object** if you need more materials per object I'd recommend masking with vertex colors and have multiple shaders withing the material
- This doesn't cover things like shadow and combined baking but that process is already available in Blender as is
